# Version 2.0.1 Release Notes

The following release notes describe the required changes to migrate from versions 1.0.x and 1.1.x to version 2.0.0 of infra-paas-springboot-starter-kit.

If you haven't completed the previous upgrades, please complete them before attempting to proceed.

**These release notes are based on the unmodified starter kit. You will need to extrapolate these instructions based on the modifications that you made to satifisy your business needs**
## GIT Setup
### Upstream repositories

In order to minimize the effort required to propagate changes from `infra-paas-springboot-starter-project` to derived projects, version 2 introduces the use of forks. A series of upstream repositories must be set in any local repositories:

```shell
git remote add upstream http://tfs.tsl.telus.com/tfs/telus/BT-GIT/_git/infra-paas-springboot-starter-project
```

Executing the command `git remote -v` should provide references to your application repository, as well as the starter project.

```shell
upstream http://tfs.tsl.telus.com/tfs/telus/BT-GIT/_git/infra-paas-springboot-starter-project (fetch)
upstream http://tfs.tsl.telus.com/tfs/telus/BT-GIT/_git/infra-paas-springboot-starter-project (push)
```

As changes are introduced by the PaaS team, updates can be retrieved from the parent project by executing the following steps.

+ Fetch from the upstream repository

```bash
git fetch upstream
```
+ Merge the changes to your master branch.

```bash
git merge upstream/master
```
+ If you encounter errors you may be required to invoke the command with the following arguments

```bash
git merge upstream/master --allow-unrelated-histories
```
## Required Modifications

### pom.xml
In version 1.1.0 of infra-paas-springboot-starter-project, the REST security solution was externalized to the library 'telus-springboot-security'. The dependencies section must be updated to include it:

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.telus.springboot</groupId>
  <artifactId>telus-springboot-security</artifactId>
  <version>1.1</version>
</dependency>
```

The build plugin must be updated accordingly:
```xml
<configuration>
  <source>1.8</source>
  <target>1.8</target>
  <requiresUnpack>
    <dependency>
      <groupId>com.telus</groupId>
      <artifactId>paas-springboot-security</artifactId>
    </dependency>
  </requiresUnpack>
</configuration>
```

### Jenkinsfile

The Jenkinsfile has undergone a significant refactoring. The various project customizations that where previously required (BRANCH_NAME, JIRA_KEY, PROJECT_NAMESPACE, etc.) have all been relocated to `openshift/build-template.yaml` and will instead be required when your project is established. Additionally, the amount of logic within the Jenkinsfile has been minimized in favour of the groovy library `@Library ('infra-paas-starter-lib@master')`.

It is recommended that these changes are accepted from `upstream/master`

```bash
git checkout upstream/master -- Jenkinsfile
```

### application.yaml

The modifications to application.yaml include:
* Setting the default logging level for it04, pr profiles
```yaml
logging:
  level:
    root: WARN
```
* Removing references to RESTAuthFilterConfig.
* Introduction a build date stamp to be displayed in the `/info` actuator.
```yaml
info:
  tag: ${IMAGE_TAG}
  build:
    artifact: @project.artifactId@
    name: @project.name@
    version: @project.version@
    build: ${BUILD_DT}
```

### OpenShift Configuration Files

A series of changes have been introduced to version 2.0 of infra-paas-springboot-starter-kit. These changes include:
* Introduction of horizontal pod auto-scaling.
* Externalization  of project meta data (BRANCH_NAME, JIRA_KEY, PROJECT_NAMESPACE, etc.)
* Introduction of revision history.

It is recommended that these changes are accepted from `upstream/master`

If any merge conflicts are experienced, please checkout the files directly:

```bash
git checkout upstream/master -- openshift/build-template.yaml
git checkout upstream/master -- openshift/env-template.yaml
```

### Source Code
The externalization of the RESTAuthFilter has resulted in some minor code refactoring. The entire package `com.telus.springboot.security` must be deleted. This should have been observed during the merge from `upstream/master`

```git
deleted:    src/main/java/com/telus/starter/springboot/security/exception/AuthenticationException.java
deleted:    src/main/java/com/telus/starter/springboot/security/exception/BaseRuntimeException.java
deleted:    src/main/java/com/telus/starter/springboot/security/ws/rest/PKIUtil.java
deleted:    src/main/java/com/telus/starter/springboot/security/ws/rest/RESTAuthFilter.java
deleted:    src/main/java/com/telus/starter/springboot/security/ws/rest/RESTPrincipal.java
deleted:    src/main/java/com/telus/starter/springboot/security/ws/rest/TELUSAuthToken.java
```

Additionally, a new `@ComponentScan` will be requried in your SpringBootApplication to allow the security library to work as expected:

```Java
@SpringBootApplication
@ComponentScan("com.telus.starter.springboot")
@ComponentScan("com.telus.springboot.security")
public class HelloWorldApplication {
...
}
```

## Pipeline Re-creation

Due to the nature of the changes introducted in infra-paas-springboot-starter-project v2.0.1, your pipelines must be recreated.

### Delete Pipeline

The existing pipeline can be deleted from the console or the command line.

```bash
oc delete bc/master-app-pipeline
```

### Create Pipeline

A new pipeline must be created by executing the script `scripts/create-branch-build.sh`. The required attributes are the paramters that had previously been set in the Jenkinsfile.

```bash
./scripts/create-branch-build.sh \
  <application-name> \
  <git-repo>  \
  <git-branch> \
  <namespace> \
  <version>  \
  <jira-key>  \
  <jira-epic-key> \
  true```
